In R typing data sleep brings up the sleep
data that was originally analyzed in
Gosset's Biometrika paper.
This shows the increase in hours slept for
patients onto sleep medications.
R treats the data as two groups,
rather than paired.
But here we're going to treat
the data is if they were paired.
Here, data sleep will load the data.
Head sleep will first, will print
the first few rows of the data frame.
Variable extra, is the extra hours slept.
Group is a group ID,
and ID is a subject ID.
So, 1 through 10 will
give you subjects ID,
1 through 10 observation,
11 is subject ID 1 again, and so on.
[SOUND] Here I plot the data,
and again the code for
the plot can be found in
the R mark down file.
I've connected each subject with a line.
I think it's pretty clear here,
the benefit from
acknowledging that these are repeat
measurements on the same subjects.
If you do not acknowledge that, then what
you are comparing is this variation,
group one variation, minus this variation,
group two variation.
If you do acknowledge that,
then you are comparing
these subject specific differences,
when comparing across groups.
But a variation in these differences is
much lower because observations within
a subject are quite correlated.
Here I grab the first ten measurements,
which are subjects 1 through 10.
And here I grab the latter
ten measurements,
which is subjects 1 through
10 on the second medication.
The difference then is
group 2 minus group 1.
Here, the vector y subdra,
subtraction making sense, because I
grabbed them in the specific order.
The mean of the difference is just mean,
and the standard deviation
of the difference can be
obtained with the function sd,
here I define n to be 10.
My t confidence interval
can be given like this.
It is the mean plus or
minus the relevant t quantile,
evaluated at n minus 1 degrees of freedom
times the standard error of the interval.
Of course,
we don't want to do this every time, so
we can just do the function t
test of difference, and t test
where we pass it the two vectors, and
give it the argument paired equals true.
Or you can actually give it a form
of model statement where you say,
outcome extra is a function of
the group where paired equals
true the value weighted for
the data frame sleep.
[SOUND] I formatted these
results a little bit,
because it gives you much,
much, more output than this.
But I concatenated them into a matrix, and
you can see that all those commands
give you about the same result.
The difference in the groups being
somewhere between 0.7 and 2.46.
So, because this is a confidence
interval the interpretation is,
that if we were to repeatedly perform
this procedure on independent samples,
about 95% of the intervals
that we obtained.
Would contain the true mean
difference that we're estimating.
This, of course, assumes that these
subjects are relevant sample from
a population of subdec,
subjects that we're interested in.
Suppose